# Cargo options

## 1. Central BuckitUp

One BuckitUp device. Many sensors (at least one per checkpoint)

##### Checkpoint deploy

1. Checkpoint creates a user for itself into system and stores keys on its hard drive

##### Route start

1. Anyone creates a room with truck number
2. Invites checkpoints into the room

##### Checkpoint algo

1. Driver pushes the button.
2. Truck number is recognised. Sensor lights in-progress LED.
3. Sensor uses API to find room by truck number.
4. Sensor finds the key of the room in chats (can be background job)
5. Sensor writes image and weight info to the room.
6. Sensor turns off in-progress LED, Driver is free to go.

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

<!-- Learn more at https://mermaid-js.github.io/mermaid -->

```mermaid
graph TD;
b(BuckitUp)
  subgraph Checkpoint_1
    s1(Sensor)
  end
  subgraph Checkpoint_2
    s2(Sensor)
  end  
  subgraph Checkpoint_N
    sn(Sensor)
  end 
  b -.- Checkpoint_1
  b -.- Checkpoint_2
  b -.- Checkpoint_N

```

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

#### Pros:

* no or minimal driver actions
* no USB drive handling = no `cargo_db` drive type
* no special room handling

#### Cons:

* outage of central chat blocks the process
* network outage blocks the process
* requires permanent network connection

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

#### Left to do

* BuckitUp: minimal API
* Sensor: truck number recognition
* Sensor: API client
* Sensor: weigh and camera
* Sensor: progress indication

## 2. Smart Sensor and BuckitUp per Checkpoint

Sensor and BuckitUp can be on same or separate devices.

In this case we replacing centralizerd network with USB drive to transfer data. Also flash drive gives us truck number.

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

##### Checkpoint deploy

1. Checkpoint creates a user for itself into system and stores keys on its hard drive
2. Sensor url and public key stored in BuckitUp admin panel

##### Route start

1. Starter creates special room with truck number
2. Invites checkpoints into the room
3. Cargo USB gets written with track room and chevkpoint invitations into the room
4. Driver takes USB drive

##### Checkpoint algo

1. Driver inserts USB drive at checkpoint
2. BuckitUp recognizes cargo USB drive and notifies sensor with room and peer name sent invitation
3. Sensor lights in-progress LED.
4. Sensor finds the key of the room in chat
5. Sensor writes image and weight info to the room.
6. BuckitUp finds new info in a room and unmounts flash drive.
7. Sensor turns off in-progress LED
8. Driver takes USB drive.

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

<!-- Learn more at https://mermaid-js.github.io/mermaid -->

```mermaid
graph TD;
d{{USB drive}}
  subgraph Checkpoint_1
    b1(BuckitUp) <-->
    s1(Sensor)
  end
  subgraph Checkpoint_2
    b2(BuckitUp) <-->
    s2(Sensor)
  end  
  subgraph Checkpoint_N
    bn(BuckitUp) <--> sn(Sensor)
  end 
  d -.- Checkpoint_1
  d -.- Checkpoint_2
  d -.- Checkpoint_N

```

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

#### Pros:

* no network needed
* decentralised, stable and copied over checkpoints

#### Cons:

* driver needs to insert USB drive

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

#### Left to do

* BuckitUp: minimal API
* BuckitUp: roomstarting
* BuckitUp: `cargo_db` handling
* BuckitUp: sensor configuration
* Sensor: API client
* Sensor: weigh and camera
* Sensor: progress indication

## 3. Simple Sensor and BuckitUp per Checkpoint

In this case Sensor provides simple interface to get weight info and camera image.
It is likely to be run on one device.

Sensor should provide HTTP or CLI interface.

TBD

## 4. BuckitUp per Checkpoint

Everything done in BuckitUp system.

TBD
